{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2870
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Oblique;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\'00;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat0\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat0\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid3}
{\list\listtemplateid4\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat0\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid301\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid4}
{\list\listtemplateid5\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat0\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid401\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid5}
{\list\listtemplateid6\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat0\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid501\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid6}
{\list\listtemplateid7\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat0\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid601\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid7}
{\list\listtemplateid8\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat0\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid701\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid8}
{\list\listtemplateid9\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat0\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid801\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid9}
{\list\listtemplateid10\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat0\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid901\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid10}
{\list\listtemplateid11\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat0\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1001\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid11}
{\list\listtemplateid12\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat0\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid12}
{\list\listtemplateid13\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat0\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1201\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid13}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid4\listoverridecount0\ls4}{\listoverride\listid5\listoverridecount0\ls5}{\listoverride\listid6\listoverridecount0\ls6}{\listoverride\listid7\listoverridecount0\ls7}{\listoverride\listid8\listoverridecount0\ls8}{\listoverride\listid9\listoverridecount0\ls9}{\listoverride\listid10\listoverridecount0\ls10}{\listoverride\listid11\listoverridecount0\ls11}{\listoverride\listid12\listoverridecount0\ls12}{\listoverride\listid13\listoverridecount0\ls13}}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa321\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs48 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Council Review \'97 Bonding Unit Reimagining\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 For:
\f1\b0  Mide \'b7 
\f0\b Date:
\f1\b0  19 July 2026 \'b7 
\f0\b Full record:
\f1\b0  docs/redesign/council_bonding_review.md\uc0\u8232 Five-member design council (Pedagogy \'b7 Interaction \'b7 Visual \'b7 Exam-Prep \'b7 Engagement), each read the real rendered pages. No code changed, no commits.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs36 \cf0 Executive Summary\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 The council unanimously agrees with your verdict.
\f1\b0  The 12 pages are one page generated twelve times: [maybe a hero] \uc0\u8594  theory blocks \u8594  Common Mistake \u8594  Key Note \u8594  Examiner Tip \u8594  one matching game \u8594  12 quiz questions \u8594  stars. Everything wrong flows from that:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\b \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	1	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 All teaching at the top, all testing at the bottom.
\f1\b0  Students scroll 600\'96900 words without being asked to do anything. On Ionic Bonding, the interactive, a 6-step text block and an example box say the same thing three times in a row.\
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	2	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Most "interactives" are slideshows.
\f1\b0  The dot-and-cross stepper's only button is "Next". The state buttons print their own answers ("Molten \uc0\u8594  Conducts \u10003 ") \'97 students read verdicts instead of earning them. Nothing anywhere asks the student to 
\f0\b predict before revealing
\f1\b0 .\
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	3	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Everything trains recognising answers; the exam pays for producing them.
\f1\b0  No writing practice, no diagram-drawing practice (dot-and-cross IS assessed), no building formulas from scratch, no 6-mark practice \'97 even though Bonding owns three of Paper 1's classic 6-markers.\
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	4	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 The matching games give their answers away
\f1\b0  ("Monomer: ethene\'85" can only go on "Poly(ethene)") \'97 solvable by word-matching with zero chemistry. Strong students notice and lose trust. Worse: the drag-and-drop 
\f0\b does not work on phones at all
\f1\b0 , and the card-sort bins can't be used by keyboard \'97 two real bugs shipped today.\
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	5	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Nothing is remembered, so nothing pulls students back.
\f1\b0  Quiz scores vanish; there's no "beat your last score" and no "retry just the 3 you missed".\
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	6	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Visually one rhythm: box, box, box.
\f1\b0  On Nanoparticles a student scrolls six near-identical bordered boxes in a row. Emoji (\uc0\u55358 \u56770 \u55357 \u56487 \u55357 \u56617 ) stand in for the very structures the unit teaches, while real drawn atoms sit unused inside one interactive.\
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	7	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Spec accuracy flags for your examiner eye
\f1\b0  (nothing changed \'97 content is frozen): graphene/fullerenes sit in a "Higher Tier Only" box but are NOT Higher-only in AQA 5.2.3.3 \'97 a Foundation build would hide examinable content; the Nanoparticles page is missing coarse/fine particles (PM10/PM2.5), size-range recall and standard-form practice, and its quiz has 11 questions, not 12.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 The vision:
\f1\b0  keep one design language (colours, fonts, panel anatomy) and let every page's structure follow its topic. A page becomes a chain of short learn\uc0\u8594 do cycles \'97 never more than ~150 words before the student must commit to something (a prediction, a build, a sort, or a written answer). Each page gets 
\f0\b one flagship lab, one or two mid-size activities, small widgets woven through the text, and an exam ladder
\f1\b0 : recall \uc0\u8594  apply \u8594  explain-chain \u8594  write a full answer and self-mark it.\

\f0\b Order of attack:
\f1\b0  (1) fix the shipped bugs and put the spec flags in front of you; (2) retrofit predict-before-reveal onto the five existing interactives \'97 the cheapest big win; (3) build the two exam-production engines (answer-chain builder, write-then-self-mark) for the four 6-marker pages; (4) then build the new labs in batches, with your review gate after each batch.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs36 \cf0 Lab Catalogue \'97 what each page deserves\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f2\i\b0\fs24 \cf0 Sizes: S = small inline widget \'b7 M = mid activity \'b7 L = flagship lab. \uc0\u9873  = includes new activity content beyond the frozen science \u8594  your sign-off. Per page we'd build the flagship + 1\'962 mids; small widgets are cheap extras.
\f1\i0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 1 \'b7 Chemical Bonds (the decision page \'97 currently no interactive at the top)\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0
\fs24 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Bond Decider (L, flagship):
\f1\b0  pick two elements from a mini periodic table, 
\f2\i predict the bond type
\f1\i0 , then watch the chamber resolve it \'97 transfer arrow, shared pair, or electron sea \'97 with real drawn atoms replacing \uc0\u55358 \u56770 \u55357 \u56487 \u55357 \u56617 .\
\ls2\ilvl0
\f0\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Sort-the-Substance speed round (S):
\f1\b0  a formula flashes, tap ionic/covalent/metallic; best score saved.\
\ls2\ilvl0
\f0\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Mystery Substance (M):
\f1\b0  property clues flip one at a time; commit your guess as early as you dare.\
\ls2\ilvl0
\f0\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Conductivity bench (M):
\f1\b0  test NaCl solid, NaCl molten, copper and wax in a circuit \'97 predict each bulb first.\
\ls2\ilvl0
\f0\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Melting-point ladder (S):
\f1\b0  order NaCl, H\uc0\u8322 O, Cu, diamond. Keep the existing 3-way sort. End the page with a visual map of the whole unit.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 2 \'b7 States of Matter (the neglected page \'97 motion IS the topic, and it has no interactive)\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl0
\fs24 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Heating-Curve Lab (L, flagship):
\f1\b0  the student heats a substance; particles go lattice \uc0\u8594  jiggle \u8594  free while the temperature-time graph draws itself and the flat sections appear live. Predict at every stage; challenge mode: place the plateaus on a blank graph. (The heating curve is currently only 
\f2\i described in words
\f1\i0  inside a quiz question.)\
\ls3\ilvl0
\f0\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 State-symbol speed round (S):
\f1\b0  60 seconds, tap (s)/(l)/(g)/(aq) for flashing equations. Kills "(aq) means any liquid".\
\ls3\ilvl0
\f0\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 State-from-data widget (S):
\f1\b0  given melting/boiling points, type the state at a given temperature \'97 the classic AQA data question.\
\ls3\ilvl0
\f0\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Particle-diagram error-spot (S):
\f1\b0  tap the wrong drawing ("particles expand when heated").\
\ls3\ilvl0
\f0\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Fix the matching \uc0\u9873 :
\f1\b0  remove the give-away words from the cards.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 3 \'b7 Ionic Bonding\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls4\ilvl0
\fs24 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Electron-Drag Dot-Cross (M, flagship):
\f1\b0  the existing stepper becomes "watch mode"; new practice mode has the student drag the electrons themselves \'97 snap to shell, wrong shell bounces back, charges appear when right.\
\ls4\ilvl0
\f0\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Ionic Formula Forge (M):
\f1\b0  add ion tiles (Mg\'b2\uc0\u8314 , Cl\u8315 , Al\'b3\u8314 , O\'b2\u8315 \'85) until the charge meter reads zero and the formula assembles. First round fully worked, then progressively less help. Kills "subscripts come from group numbers".\
\ls4\ilvl0
\f0\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Predict-the-ion gates (S)
\f1\b0  on the stepper, and 
\f0\b spot-the-flaw (S)
\f1\b0  on "the bond IS the transfer".\
\ls4\ilvl0
\f0\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Write-then-mark \uc0\u9873  (M):
\f1\b0  write the transfer \uc0\u8594  ions \u8594  attraction explanation, then self-mark against revealed marking points (including "do not accept: transfer = bond").\
\ls4\ilvl0
\f0\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Dot-and-Cross Canvas (L, later phase):
\f1\b0  place electrons, charges and brackets; self-check against the real 3 marking points. Also delete the text block that repeats the interactive word-for-word.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 4 \'b7 Ionic Compounds\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls5\ilvl0
\fs24 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Heat the Lattice (M, flagship):
\f1\b0  a temperature slider from 25\uc0\u8594 1000 \'b0C \'97 the lattice vibrates harder and breaks apart at 801 \'b0C, and the conduction verdict flips live. The student 
\f2\i causes
\f1\i0  melting instead of pressing a "molten" button.\
\ls5\ilvl0
\f0\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Lattice Builder (M):
\f1\b0  place + and \uc0\u8722  ions on a grid; like charges glow red and shake apart; goal: the stable alternating pattern. Kills "NaCl is a molecule".\
\ls5\ilvl0
\f0\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Wire It Yourself (M):
\f1\b0  move electrodes between solid / molten / dissolved beakers and discover which lights the bulb.\
\ls5\ilvl0
\f0\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Shatter vs bend (S):
\f1\b0  same force on NaCl and copper side by side \'97 predict which survives.\
\ls5\ilvl0
\f0\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Lattice-to-formula deducer (S/M):
\f1\b0  count ions in a lattice diagram, type the formula.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 5 \'b7 Properties of Ionic Compounds (owns 6-mark banker \uc0\u8470 1)\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls6\ilvl0
\fs24 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 6-Mark Chain Builder (M, flagship):
\f1\b0  assemble the full "high melting point + conducts molten but not solid" answer from jumbled causal links \'97 with red herrings taken from the quiz's own wrong-answer bank ("delocalised electrons carry the current").\
\ls6\ilvl0
\f0\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Be the Examiner \uc0\u9873  (M):
\f1\b0  mark a flawed student answer ("electrons flow through the solution") against the scheme, then see the examiner's marks.\
\ls6\ilvl0
\f0\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Conductivity predictor (S):
\f1\b0  4 compounds \'d7 3 states, predict then test.\
\ls6\ilvl0
\f0\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Charge-vs-melting-point ranking + Higher write-up \uc0\u9873  (S/M):
\f1\b0  order NaCl/MgO/KCl, explain with ion charges \'97 grade 8/9 territory.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 6 \'b7 Covalent Bonding\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls7\ilvl0
\fs24 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Shared-Pair Builder (M, flagship):
\f1\b0  build H\uc0\u8322 O, CH\u8324 , NH\u8323 , O\u8322 , N\u8322  from an atom tray \'97 drag shared pairs in and choose 
\f2\i how many
\f1\i0 ; each atom shows how many bonds it still needs. Kills "carbon forms 8 bonds". This makes the Higher box's "draw these 9 molecules" list actually doable.\
\ls7\ilvl0
\f0\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Strong-bond vs weak-force sort (S):
\f1\b0  statements sorted TRUE vs MISCONCEPTION \'97 attacks the unit's \uc0\u8470 1 misconception head-on.\
\ls7\ilvl0
\f0\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Halogen boiling-point predict-and-reveal (S).
\f1\b0 \
\ls7\ilvl0
\f0\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Dot-and-Cross Canvas (L, later phase):
\f1\b0  H\uc0\u8322  through CO\u8322 , double/triple bonds at Higher. Delete the text block that repeats the stepper.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 7 \'b7 Properties of Small Molecules\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls8\ilvl0
\fs24 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Two-Forces Tug Lab (M, flagship):
\f1\b0  wager "which breaks first?", then heat liquid water \'97 the molecules fly apart 
\f2\i intact
\f1\i0 : thick dark covalent bonds visibly hold while the faint dotted forces between molecules stretch and snap. The most-cited misconception in AQA examiner reports, animated.\
\ls8\ilvl0
\f0\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Boiling-point ladder (S/M):
\f1\b0  drag CH\uc0\u8324 , Cl\u8322 , Br\u8322 , I\u8322  onto a temperature ladder \'97 marker size = molecule size, so "bigger molecule \u8594  higher bp" becomes a picture.\
\ls8\ilvl0
\f0\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Be the Examiner \uc0\u9873  (M):
\f1\b0  mark "the covalent bonds between methane molecules break when it boils".\
\ls8\ilvl0
\f0\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Conductivity bench (S)
\f1\b0  + opt-in timed mode on the existing sort.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 8 \'b7 Polymers (currently no interactive)\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls9\ilvl0
\fs24 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Polymer Chain Builder (M, flagship):
\f1\b0  tap ethene monomers \'97 each C=C pops open and the chain grows across the page; the repeat unit appears as a huge bracket [\'97CH\uc0\u8322 \'97CH\u8322 \'97]\u8345 . Challenge: "chain 8 monomers \'97 how many atoms were lost?" (Answer: zero \'97 the misconception, embodied.)\
\ls9\ilvl0
\f0\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Thermoplastic vs thermosetting heat test (S):
\f1\b0  predict which softens, then heat both chain diagrams \'97 the cross-links hold one firm.\
\ls9\ilvl0
\f0\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Ethene \uc0\u8596  poly(ethene) compare (S).
\f1\b0 \
\ls9\ilvl0
\f0\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Write-then-mark \uc0\u9873  (M):
\f1\b0  polymer vs small-molecule boiling point.\
\ls9\ilvl0
\f0\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Fix the matching \uc0\u9873 :
\f1\b0  monomer structures only, no names.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 9 \'b7 Giant Covalent Structures (your signed-off exemplar \'97 refine, don't rebuild; owns 6-mark banker \uc0\u8470 2)\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls10\ilvl0
\fs24 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Predict gates (S)
\f1\b0  on the diamond/graphite switch: "conducts \'97 yes/no? hard \'97 yes/no?" before the reveal.\
\ls10\ilvl0
\f0\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Explanation-Chain Builder (M, flagship):
\f1\b0  assemble "3 bonds per carbon \uc0\u8594  spare electron \u8594  delocalised \u8594  conducts" and "weak forces between layers \u8594  slide \u8594  soft". Kills "graphite conducts because it's metallic".\
\ls10\ilvl0
\f0\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 6-mark compare builder (M):
\f1\b0  drag each property onto its structural cause \'97 the linked comparison that earns Level 3.\
\ls10\ilvl0
\f0\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Structure Detective (S/M):
\f1\b0  property data \uc0\u8594  identify diamond / graphite / graphene / SiO\u8322  / C\u8326 \u8320 .\
\ls10\ilvl0
\f0\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Bond-counting hotspot (S):
\f1\b0  tap any carbon; its 4 (or 3) bonds light up.\
\ls10\ilvl0
\f0\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 \uc0\u9873  Spec flag:
\f1\b0  graphene/fullerenes need to move OUT of the Higher-only box.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 10 \'b7 Metallic Bonding\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls11\ilvl0
\fs24 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Electron-Sea Workbench (M/L, flagship):
\f1\b0  one metal lattice, two attachable instruments \'97 a battery (electron drift becomes directional, ammeter reads) and a heat source (vibration spreads end to end). The student chooses the experiment.\
\ls11\ilvl0
\f0\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Bond-strength sweep \uc0\u9873  (S/M, Higher):
\f1\b0  switch Na \uc0\u8594  Mg \u8594  Al; more electrons per atom, denser sea, melting point climbs.\
\ls11\ilvl0
\f0\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Claim clinic (S):
\f1\b0  a bank of resettable "spot the flaw" claims ("the bond is between atoms"\'85).\
\ls11\ilvl0
\f0\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Conduction chain builder (S/M)
\f1\b0  and a 
\f0\b hammer press (S)
\f1\b0  \'97 press and hold, layers slide, springy release.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 11 \'b7 Metals & Alloys (owns 6-mark banker \uc0\u8470 3)\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls12\ilvl0
\fs24 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Alloy Mixer (M, flagship):
\f1\b0  a slider mixes 0\uc0\u8594 20% different-sized atoms into the lattice; hardness and bendiness meters respond live; then hit "apply force" to verify the meters. Kills "an alloy is a compound".\
\ls12\ilvl0
\f0\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Engineer's Pick (S/M):
\f1\b0  three briefs drawn from a pool of eight (aircraft wing, cutlery, propeller\'85) \'97 choose a material, marked with the structural reason. The matching pairs reborn as decisions.\
\ls12\ilvl0
\f0\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 6-mark chain builder (M):
\f1\b0  why alloys are harder \'97 regular layers slide vs distorted layers can't.\
\ls12\ilvl0
\f0\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Predict wrapper (S)
\f1\b0  on the existing force demo + a 
\f0\b three-sample stress bench (S)
\f1\b0 .\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 12 \'b7 Nanoparticles (Triple only \'97 the calculation page)\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls13\ilvl0
\fs24 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Powers-of-Ten Zoom (M, flagship):
\f1\b0  step from a hand \uc0\u8594  hair \u8594  red blood cell \u8594  virus \u8594  nanoparticle \u8594  atom on a log scale. "1 nm = one billionth of a metre" finally set at display size.\
\ls13\ilvl0
\f0\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Cube-Splitting SA:V sim (M):
\f1\b0  split a cube 1 \uc0\u8594  8 \u8594  64; wager on the ratio before the reveal; watch surface-to-volume climb \'d710 as the side drops \'f710 \'97 the exact spec statement, as a picture. (Also: the FIFA calculations move up to sit right after this, before the matching game.)\
\ls13\ilvl0
\f0\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 FIFA faded practice \uc0\u9873  (S):
\f1\b0  new numbers, one answer required in metres/standard form.\
\ls13\ilvl0
\f0\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Evaluate-Answer Builder \uc0\u9873  (M):
\f1\b0  assemble benefit + risk + judgement for sunscreen/silver \'97 the three parts an Evaluate answer must have.\
\ls13\ilvl0
\f0\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 \uc0\u9873  Content gaps for your sign-off:
\f1\b0  coarse/fine particles (PM10/PM2.5) and size-range recall are missing; the quiz has 11 questions, not 12; spec-pill number needs checking.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs36 \cf0 What happens next\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 Phase 0
\f1\b0  \'97 fix the shipped bugs (phone-dead matching, keyboard-dead bins) and put the spec-defect packet in front of you. 
\f0\b Phase 1
\f1\b0  \'97 retrofit all 12 pages (predict gates, quiz restyle as an exam paper in 3 chunks, "retry my misses", best scores, revision-card Key Note, Teach me/Labs/Test me chooser); you review 2 pilot pages. 
\f0\b Phase 2
\f1\b0  \'97 the exam engines (chain builder, write-then-self-mark, formula builder) on the four 6-marker pages; you review the marking points \'97 that packet is precisely your examiner skillset. 
\f0\b Phase 3
\f1\b0  \'97 the new labs, in three batches of 3\'964 pages, a review gate after each. 
\f0\b Phase 4
\f1\b0  \'97 the big flagships (dot-and-cross canvas, electron-sea workbench, scale zoom) and the unit mastery map.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f2\i \cf0 Council dissents preserved in the full record: caps on interactives per page (one flagship + 1\'962 mids \'97 more becomes a fidget spinner); exam-prep's warning that sims don't convert to marks (hence exam engines before mass labs); no points/streaks/leaderboards at page level; timers always opt-in.
\f1\i0 \
}