{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red176\green52\blue26;\red90\green80\blue70;\red138\green94\blue10;\red224\green162\blue26;}\margl1440\margr1440\margt1200\margb1200\f0\cf1
\pard\sa60\sl276\slmult1 \fs32 \cf2 \b MRB-127 \u8212? Examiner Tip pilot drafts: Bonding (11 pages)\par
\pard\sa80\sl276\slmult1 \fs20 \i Review doc for Mide. Draft only \u8212? NONE of these 11 tips are written into the data files yet. For each page: the drafted Examiner Tip, then the grounding it is built from (its Common Mistake, AQA command words, or mark-scheme phrasing). Approve or edit each tip; a follow-up task places the approved set and regenerates.\par
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 \fs20 \i Note: #8 (properties-small-molecules) is already placed as the PROVE-IT example on its .rd page; it is listed here for completeness. #10 (giant-covalent-structures) is the signed-off .rd exemplar. \u8220?rd\u8221? = redesigned page (renders the canonical amber block); \u8220?old\u8221? = renders the flat amber callout.\par
\pard\sa40\sl276\slmult1 \fs26 \cf2 \b 1.  Chemical Bonds\par
\pard\sa60\sl276\slmult1 \fs18 \cf3 \i chemical-bonds  \u183?  spec 5.2.1.1  \u183?  template: rd\par
\pard\sa40\sl276\slmult1 \fs20\b\cf4 \u11088? Examiner Tip (draft):\b0\par
\pard\sa80\sl276\slmult1 \fs22 When a question says \u8220?predict\u8221? or \u8220?identify\u8221? the bonding, justify it from the elements: metal + non-metal \u8594? ionic, two non-metals \u8594? covalent, a metal alone \u8594? metallic. Naming the bond type without saying why the elements produce it rarely earns full marks.\par
\pard\sa60\sl276\slmult1 \fs18\b\cf3 Grounded in:\b0  \fs18\cf3 Key Note decision rule (bond type follows from the element combination) + the command words its own quiz uses \u8212? \u8220?Predict the type of bonding\u8230? and describe how it forms\u8221?, \u8220?Identify the type of bonding\u8221?.\par
\pard\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf5 \sa200\fs4  \par
\pard\sa40\sl276\slmult1 \fs26 \cf2 \b 2.  Ionic Bonding\par
\pard\sa60\sl276\slmult1 \fs18 \cf3 \i ionic-bonding  \u183?  spec 5.2.1.2  \u183?  template: old\par
\pard\sa40\sl276\slmult1 \fs20\b\cf4 \u11088? Examiner Tip (draft):\b0\par
\pard\sa80\sl276\slmult1 \fs22 Describing how an ionic bond forms, don\u8217?t stop at \u8220?electrons transfer\u8221? \u8212? that only makes the ions. The bond is the strong electrostatic attraction between the oppositely charged ions. Then check the charges balance to an overall zero.\par
\pard\sa60\sl276\slmult1 \fs18\b\cf3 Grounded in:\b0  \fs18\cf3 Common Mistake (the bond is the electrostatic attraction, not the one-off transfer; charges must balance) + Key Note (overall compound charge = zero). Command word: \u8220?describe how it forms\u8221?.\par
\pard\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf5 \sa200\fs4  \par
\pard\sa40\sl276\slmult1 \fs26 \cf2 \b 3.  Ionic Compounds\par
\pard\sa60\sl276\slmult1 \fs18 \cf3 \i ionic-compounds  \u183?  spec 5.2.1.3  \u183?  template: old\par
\pard\sa40\sl276\slmult1 \fs20\b\cf4 \u11088? Examiner Tip (draft):\b0\par
\pard\sa80\sl276\slmult1 \fs22 For conduction marks you must say the ions are free to move. Solid ionic compounds don\u8217?t conduct because the ions are locked in the lattice; only when molten or dissolved can the ions move and carry charge. \u8220?It contains charged particles\u8221? on its own scores nothing.\par
\pard\sa60\sl276\slmult1 \fs18\b\cf3 Grounded in:\b0  \fs18\cf3 Common Mistake (ions locked in the solid; conduct only when molten/dissolved) + its quiz stem \u8220?Explain why solid sodium chloride does not conduct electricity, but molten sodium chloride does.\u8221?\par
\pard\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf5 \sa200\fs4  \par
\pard\sa40\sl276\slmult1 \fs26 \cf2 \b 4.  Covalent Bonding\par
\pard\sa60\sl276\slmult1 \fs18 \cf3 \i covalent-bonding  \u183?  spec 5.2.1.4  \u183?  template: old\par
\pard\sa40\sl276\slmult1 \fs20\b\cf4 \u11088? Examiner Tip (draft):\b0\par
\pard\sa80\sl276\slmult1 \fs22 Never call covalent bonds weak. To explain a low boiling point, the marks are for the weak intermolecular forces between molecules being overcome \u8212? the covalent bonds inside each molecule are strong and stay intact.\par
\pard\sa60\sl276\slmult1 \fs18\b\cf3 Grounded in:\b0  \fs18\cf3 Common Mistake (covalent bonds are strong; low boiling points come from the weak intermolecular forces between molecules). Command word: \u8220?Explain why\u8230?\u8221?.\par
\pard\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf5 \sa200\fs4  \par
\pard\sa40\sl276\slmult1 \fs26 \cf2 \b 5.  Metallic Bonding\par
\pard\sa60\sl276\slmult1 \fs18 \cf3 \i metallic-bonding  \u183?  spec 5.2.1.5  \u183?  template: old\par
\pard\sa40\sl276\slmult1 \fs20\b\cf4 \u11088? Examiner Tip (draft):\b0\par
\pard\sa80\sl276\slmult1 \fs22 Be precise: the metallic bond is the attraction between the positive metal ions and the sea of delocalised electrons \u8212? not an attraction \u8220?between atoms\u8221?. Use \u8220?delocalised electrons\u8221? to explain conduction and \u8220?layers of ions slide\u8221? to explain why metals bend rather than shatter.\par
\pard\sa60\sl276\slmult1 \fs18\b\cf3 Grounded in:\b0  \fs18\cf3 Common Mistake (the bond is between positive ions and the delocalised electron sea, not between atoms; sliding layers explain malleability) + Key Note. Command words: \u8220?Explain why metals are good conductors\u8221?, \u8220?Explain why steel is harder\u8230?\u8221?.\par
\pard\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf5 \sa200\fs4  \par
\pard\sa40\sl276\slmult1 \fs26 \cf2 \b 6.  States of Matter and State Symbols\par
\pard\sa60\sl276\slmult1 \fs18 \cf3 \i states-of-matter  \u183?  spec 5.2.2.1\u8211?5.2.2.2  \u183?  template: old\par
\pard\sa40\sl276\slmult1 \fs20\b\cf4 \u11088? Examiner Tip (draft):\b0\par
\pard\sa80\sl276\slmult1 \fs22 Melting and boiling are physical changes \u8212? the particles rearrange but the substance is unchanged (ice, water and steam are all H\u8322?O), so don\u8217?t call them chemical changes. And use the state symbol (aq) only for something dissolved in water, not for any liquid.\par
\pard\sa60\sl276\slmult1 \fs18\b\cf3 Grounded in:\b0  \fs18\cf3 Common Mistake (melting/boiling is a physical change; (aq) means dissolved in water specifically) + its quiz stem \u8220?State whether this is a physical or a chemical change, and explain your answer.\u8221?\par
\pard\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf5 \sa200\fs4  \par
\pard\sa40\sl276\slmult1 \fs26 \cf2 \b 7.  Structure and Properties of Ionic Compounds\par
\pard\sa60\sl276\slmult1 \fs18 \cf3 \i properties-ionic-compounds  \u183?  spec 5.2.2.3  \u183?  template: old\par
\pard\sa40\sl276\slmult1 \fs20\b\cf4 \u11088? Examiner Tip (draft):\b0\par
\pard\sa80\sl276\slmult1 \fs22 When explaining conduction, say it is the ions that move \u8212? ionic compounds have no free electrons, so never describe electrons flowing \u8220?like in a metal\u8221?. They conduct only when molten or dissolved, because that is when the ions are free to move.\par
\pard\sa60\sl276\slmult1 \fs18\b\cf3 Grounded in:\b0  \fs18\cf3 Common Mistake (ions carry the charge, not electrons; ionic compounds have no free electrons) + its quiz stem \u8220?Predict in which forms it conducts, and explain why.\u8221?\par
\pard\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf5 \sa200\fs4  \par
\pard\sa40\sl276\slmult1 \fs26 \cf2 \b 8.  Structure and Properties of Small Molecules\par
\pard\sa60\sl276\slmult1 \fs18 \cf3 \i properties-small-molecules  \u183?  spec 5.2.2.4  \u183?  template: rd\par
\pard\sa40\sl276\slmult1 \fs20\b\cf4 \u11088? Examiner Tip (draft):\b0\par
\pard\sa80\sl276\slmult1 \fs22 Never write \u8220?the bonds break\u8221? when a simple molecular substance melts. Say the weak intermolecular forces between molecules are overcome \u8212? the strong covalent bonds inside each molecule stay intact.\par
\pard\sa60\sl276\slmult1 \fs18\b\cf3 Grounded in:\b0  \fs18\cf3 Common Mistake (what is weak are the intermolecular forces between molecules, not the covalent bonds). PLACED as the PROVE-IT example on the .rd page; shown here for completeness.\par
\pard\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf5 \sa200\fs4  \par
\pard\sa40\sl276\slmult1 \fs26 \cf2 \b 9.  Polymers\par
\pard\sa60\sl276\slmult1 \fs18 \cf3 \i polymers  \u183?  spec 5.2.2.5  \u183?  template: old\par
\pard\sa40\sl276\slmult1 \fs20\b\cf4 \u11088? Examiner Tip (draft):\b0\par
\pard\sa80\sl276\slmult1 \fs22 Don\u8217?t call a polymer a giant covalent structure. It is a large molecule whose chains are held to each other by weak intermolecular forces \u8212? that is why it melts far below diamond, where strong covalent bonds run all the way through. That force difference is where the comparison marks are.\par
\pard\sa60\sl276\slmult1 \fs18\b\cf3 Grounded in:\b0  \fs18\cf3 Common Mistake (polymers are large molecules held by weak intermolecular forces, not giant covalent) + its quiz stem \u8220?Explain why polymers have much lower melting points than giant covalent structures such as diamond.\u8221?\par
\pard\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf5 \sa200\fs4  \par
\pard\sa40\sl276\slmult1 \fs26 \cf2 \b 10.  Giant Covalent Structures\par
\pard\sa60\sl276\slmult1 \fs18 \cf3 \i giant-covalent-structures  \u183?  spec 5.2.2.6  \u183?  template: rd (exemplar, signed off)\par
\pard\sa40\sl276\slmult1 \fs20\b\cf4 \u11088? Examiner Tip (draft):\b0\par
\pard\sa80\sl276\slmult1 \fs22 Compare diamond and graphite through their bonding, not just their properties: diamond \u8212? each carbon bonds to four others (rigid, no free electrons \u8594? doesn\u8217?t conduct); graphite \u8212? each bonds to three, leaving one delocalised electron per atom (conducts) with weak forces between layers (soft, slippery). Tie every property back to the number of bonds.\par
\pard\sa60\sl276\slmult1 \fs18\b\cf3 Grounded in:\b0  \fs18\cf3 Common Mistake (same element, different bonding: diamond 4 bonds vs graphite 3 bonds + one delocalised electron) + its quiz stems \u8220?Explain why graphite conducts electricity but diamond does not\u8221? and \u8220?Explain why graphite is used as a lubricant.\u8221?\par
\pard\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf5 \sa200\fs4  \par
\pard\sa40\sl276\slmult1 \fs26 \cf2 \b 11.  Properties of Metals and Alloys\par
\pard\sa60\sl276\slmult1 \fs18 \cf3 \i metals-alloys  \u183?  spec 5.2.2.7\u8211?5.2.2.8  \u183?  template: old\par
\pard\sa40\sl276\slmult1 \fs20\b\cf4 \u11088? Examiner Tip (draft):\b0\par
\pard\sa80\sl276\slmult1 \fs22 Two easy marks to lose: metals conduct as solids because their delocalised electrons are already free to move \u8212? don\u8217?t say they must melt first like ionic compounds; and alloys are harder because different-sized atoms distort the layers so they can\u8217?t slide. Name the delocalised electrons and the disrupted layers explicitly.\par
\pard\sa60\sl276\slmult1 \fs18\b\cf3 Grounded in:\b0  \fs18\cf3 Common Mistake (metals conduct in the solid state, unlike ionic compounds) + Key Note (alloys harder: different-sized atoms disrupt the regular lattice) + its quiz stems \u8220?Explain why metals can conduct electricity in the solid state, but ionic compounds cannot\u8221? and \u8220?Explain why brass\u8230? is harder than pure copper.\u8221?\par
\pard\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf5 \sa200\fs4  \par
}